20MCA134 ADVANCED DBMS LAB 
LAB CYCLE 2 
Experiment No: 3
Familiarization of Subquery, Joins, Views and Set Operations. 
Consider the following Database Schema 
 
1. Find all employees who locate in the location with the id 1700.
2. Find all employees who do not locate at the location 1700. 
3. Finds the employees who have the highest salary. 
4. Finds all employees who salaries are greater than the average salary of all employees. 
5. Finds all departments (Department Id, Name) which have at least one employee with 
the salary is greater than 10,000. 
6. Finds all departments (Department Id, Name) that do not have any employee with the 
salary greater than 10,000. 
7. Finds all employees whose salaries are greater than the lowest salary of every 
department. 
8. Finds all employees whose salaries are greater than or equal to the highest salary of 
every department. 
9. Calculate the average of average salary of departments. (Hint: SQL subquery in the 
FROM clause) 
10. Finds the salaries of all employees, their average salary, and the difference between the 
salary of each employee and the average salary. (Hint: SQL Subquery in the SELECT 
clause) 
11. Finds all employees whose salary is higher than the average salary of the employees in 
their departments. (Hint : Use Correlated Subquery). 
12. Returns all employees who have no dependents. 
13. Display first name, last name, department name of employees of the Department with 
id 1, 2 and 3. 
14. Display the first name, last name, job title, and department name of employees who 
work in department with id 1, 2, and 3 and salary greater than 10000. 
15. Display Department name, street address, postal code, country name and region name 
of all departments. 
16. Write a SQL query to find out which employees have or do not have a department. 
Return first name, last name, department ID, department name. 
17. Write a SQL query to find those employees whose first name contains the letter ‘Z’. 
Return first name, last name, department, city, and state province. 
18. Write a SQL query to find all departments, including those without employees Return 
first name, last name, department ID, department name.

19. Write a SQL query to find the employees and their managers. . Those managers do not 
work under any manager also appear in the list. Return the first name of the employee 
and manager. 
20. Write a SQL query to find the employees who work in the same department as the 
employee with the last name Taylor. Return first name, last name and department ID. 
21. Write a SQL query to calculate the difference between the maximum salary of the job 
and the employee's salary. Return job title, employee name, and salary difference. 
22. Write a SQL query to calculate the average salary, the number of employees receiving 
commissions in that department. Return department name, average salary and number 
of employees of all departments. 
23. Create a view which contains employee name, employee id, phone number, job title, 
department name, manager name of employees belongs to department whose 
location is in ‘Delhi’ and display the details, 
24. Use the above created view to obtain the names of employees whose job title is 
‘Manager’ and department is ‘Finance’. 
25. Check whether it is possible to update the phone number of employee whose first 
name is ‘Smith’ by using the above created view. 
26. Display the details of employee who have no dependents. 
27. Display the details of employee who manager id is 101 or 201. (Use Union Clause) 
28. Display the details of employees who have at least one dependent.